The president of the Arch of God Foundation International, Archbishop-elect Mmbangiseni Ratshitanga, has urged the newly consecrated Bishop of the Rugged Cross Christian Church at Maniini to lead an exemplary life to bring many others to the fold of God. Ratshitanga, who is the chief consecrator, performed the official rites during the consecration ceremony of Pastor Lutendo Lalumbe at the Rugged Cross Christian Church Maniini on Saturday, 25 February. Lalumbe became the first bishop of the church that was founded in 2020. The ceremony drew pastors, bishops, traditional leader of the area, community members and many other guests. The 47-year-old bishop, who is the senior coordinator: moral regeneration, youth and children’s programmes at the Thulamela Municipality, was ordained as pastor in 2013. In consecrating Lalumbe, Archbishop Ratshitanga said Lalumbe’s ascension to bishophood came with great responsibility. “You have been called to lead and this higher position comes with many more responsibilities. The whole church will be looking up to you for direction. Lead by example and stay away from the foreign cultures where congregants are made to drink petrol and eat snakes and grass, all of which are bringing the name of the church into disrepute,” he said. On behalf of the Mmbi Royal Council, Ms Rudzani Daswa called on the church to play an active part in the community. “As traditional leaders, we are excited to have this church in the village. We rely on your prayers for a just rule, and please continue praying for peace and development in our village,” she said. The event also served to commemorate the church’s three-year existence. A huge cake was cut in celebration. Lalumbe said the occasion was the culmination of a prophesy by the late pensioner Mr Masala Nekhwevha, who used to call him “senior pastor” when he was still a very junior pastor at the Lutheran Church. “I thought it was impossible, but in all this I have seen God’s grace. I know his grace is sufficient for me to lead his people and that his promises are faithful and He will continue to lead me,” he said. 