Tshepo Makwela (19), Ponagatsho Moripa and Mpho Tshishonga from Rivoni School for The Blind near Elim made their school very proud when the province’s Grade 12 matric results were announced on 20 January. Tshepo was named the Top Candidate in the Public Special School category, with six distinctions attained, while Ponagatsho followed in second place with four distinctions and Mpho in third place with two distinctions. Over the years, the school has produced a 100% pass rate with very limited resources and poor conditions and facilities. Tshepo was humbly elated about his achievement, saying that his family had been very supportive of his education. He was very excited when he was invited to the breakfast function of Minister of Basic Education Angie Motshekga with the 30 top learners in South Africa on 19 January. “I was extremely happy, and I thank God for his unconditional love. I didn’t expect to be a top learner. Matric was sometimes draining. I would get depressed, but I kept myself motivated. I used to start my day early, so that I could be ahead; I guess I did catch the fattest worm,” he smiled. “I managed to achieve such excellent results because of my dedication, drive, passion and my hunger for success. And I also want to put it out there that just because you are disabled doesn’t mean you cannot succeed in something,” Tshepo said. “To this year’s matric class, my advice would be to work hard. Matric is not child’s play. They must sacrifice everything, don’t go to parties, and focus. If you put pressure on yourself now, you can have pleasure later.” Tshepo is going to the University of Johannesburg, where he applied to the faculty of education. His dream is to become a teacher and help others like himself. The principal of the school, Ms Conny Mabaso, said that compassion, patience and love were key ingredients in facilitating learners’ academic growth. She attributed the success of the school to the teamwork, commitment and passion of the teachers and support staff. “Love is everything, and when disabled learners know that they are loved and appreciated, they tend to give their all and study even harder. Over the years, the experience I gathered working with special-needs learners has taught me to always practice patience while teaching them, which I believe is something my colleagues also do. Most of the learners take their education seriously because they know it is vital for their future success and independence,” said Mabaso. 