The family members of the 78-year-old Ms Marandela Mabasa of Mashau-Bodwe, who was allegedly killed by her daughter’s boyfriend when he attacked her and her daughter Idah at their home late on the evening of 20 January, are hopeful to get justice for their mother’s murder. This comes after the suspect handed himself over to the Levubu Police on Sunday evening (19th) - almost a month after the incident. Mabasa, her daughter Idah (32), and Idah’s three-year-old son were sleeping on the night of the incident when Idah’s boyfriend, Nomthandazo Joseph Baskiti (who is also the father of her child) suddenly showed up and knocked on the door of their house. (Baskiti was released on R500 bail the previous day, after Idah had laid a charge of assault against him). According to police reports, Mabasa opened the door and went back to her bedroom. Before they knew what was happening, Baskiti was inside Mabasa’s bedroom, allegedly strangling her and threatening to kill her if she did not tell him where Idah was. (Idah was sleeping in a separate room). Baskiti then allegedly started to stab her with a sharp object. Idah ran into the room and tried to intervene and pleaded with him to stop. She ran outside to call for help, but Baskiti followed her, pinned her to the ground and allegedly also stabbed her several times over her body. Baskiti then allegedly set the six-room house on fire before fleeing the scene, taking his little boy, whom he later dropped off at his sister’s house in Mukondeni, with him. Mabasa and Idah were rushed to the Polokwane provincial hospital. Late on Saturday, 28 January, Mabasa succumbed to her injuries. Idah was discharged from the hospital two days later, and Mabasa was buried on 4 February. The family spokesperson, Mr Aluwani Mabasa, said they were very relieved when their mother’s alleged killer was arrested. Aluwani said that coping with the pain of losing a beloved mother to a criminal was hard. “We are now only waiting for this case to be finalised to our satisfaction, although we know that our mother will never come back. The suspect who murdered her deserves to rot in jail because what he did was inhumane and unacceptable,” he said. He blamed the police and justice system for letting Baskiti out on bail in the first place while he was charged for physically abusing Idah. “Does that not make him a danger to society? Dangerous criminals are let out on the streets by the very people who should be looking out for our protection and safety.” Aluwani said the family was grateful for the support they had received from the community and friends since the death of their mother. “We have witnessed massive support from the police, government officials, our traditional leaders, and members of the community, and we thank them all.” Baskiti appeared in the Thohoyandou Magistrate’s Court on Wednesday (22 February). At the time of our going to press, the outcome was not known yet. 