Learners of Hluvuka High School in Bungeni finally returned to their classes on Tuesday (24 January), after frustrated parents from Mtsetweni Secondary School had blocked the entrance to their school for three days, demanding that the school admit Grade 8 and 9 learners again. In 2015, Hluvuka High School used to still admit Grade 8-12 learners. Then, in 2016, Grade 8 and 9 learners were moved to Mtsetweni Secondary because Hluvuka High was being renovated. The parents say the circuit manager promised to take Grade 8 and 9 learners in again as soon as the renovations were done, but this did not happen. Renovations at Hluvuka were completed that same year (2016), and since then the school has not taken in Grade 8 and 9 learners. Now parents are demanding that the circuit manager keep her promise. The protest started on Thursday morning (19 January). More than 80 parents protested outside the school, demanding to meet with the circuit manager first before allowing the school to reopen. On Monday (23 January), parents, members of the school-governing body (SGB), the school management team, the circuit manager and other stakeholders such as local chiefs, held a four-hour-long meeting to discuss the matter. Parents raised their concerns, saying that their children must travel long distances to attend Mtsetweni because Hluvuka High no longer admits Grade 8 and 9. Ms Johanna Ntshani, one of the concerned parents, said that some learners were compelled to get up earlier since their parents could not afford to pay for taxi fares. “During winter seasons, some learners walk in the dark as they are expected to arrive at school at 06:30, which is not safe for them,” she said. Ntshani claimed that the Grade 8 and 9 classes at Mtsetweni Secondary were overcrowded, with 80 to 95 learners, while Hluvuka High had empty classrooms. The chairperson of the Bungeni Royal Council, Mr Albert Mabunda, said an application to return the two grades had been submitted to the Department of Education but declined in October last year. An appeal was made in November, but the outcome is still pending. Mabunda denied the parents’ allegations about overcrowded classes at Mtsetweni Secondary. He explained the reason why the application was denied. “The Department of Education indicated that the application was unsuccessful because it will turn Mtsetweni Secondary School into a white elephant. We are now waiting for feedback on the appeal we made,” he said. Mr Khazamula Nwandule, chairperson of Hluvuka High School’s SGB, said the issue of admitting the two grades would be followed up by the SGB and other relevant stakeholders. The parents seemed to be satisfied with the outcome of the meeting and the new commitment to admit Grade 8 and 9 learners at Hluvuka High, which is scheduled to be implemented by next year. 