Pressure applied by representatives of the South African National Civic Organization (SANCO) and the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) probably helped to stop a project where an RDP house was being built on an incorrect site. The chairperson of SANCO in Phiphidi, Mr Khathutshelo Tshipalafhasi, said they were asked to intervene and had to physically chase people away who were busy building an RDP house on a wrong stand, right next to a large house that has approximately nine rooms or more. “As SANCO, we identified Stand no. 177 as [that of] the applicant. We were surprised when he (the applicant) abandoned the stand that was awarded to him and instructed the building contractors to build the RDP house next to his parents’ house, which is a large house,” he said. Two EFF ward councillors in the area, Fhatuwani Begwa and Ernest Madzimbalala, entered the fray and called on all civic structures to attend a meeting where a decision was taken to contact the Thulamela Municipality about this matter. “Even though the municipality admitted what the applicant is doing is illegal, they did nothing to stop him from building the house at a wrong place. The building contractor continued to build the RDP house and members of the community had to go and chase them away,” said Tshipalafhasi. The treasurer of SANCO at Phiphidi, Ms Humbulani Nelly Netshifhefhe, said they would not fold their arms when corruption took place in the village. “I am calling on the municipality to stop this nonsense. RDP houses are meant for people who don’t have shelter. This guy was allocated an RDP house at Stand no. 177 while he was still living with his wife and children. Now they are no longer together, and he is living with his parents in their big home. What does he need a house for?” she asked. When Limpopo Mirror’s correspondent went to the house on Sunday, 29 January, he was threatened with violence. He was told that if he dared take a picture of the RDP house, he would be beaten up and sued. When asked if the municipality knew where the RDP was being built, he said the matter was an arrangement between him and the local headman. On Friday, 3 February, a meeting took place between all stakeholders, where a decision was taken that the RDP house being built in the wrong place would be demolished. The meeting was also attended by representatives from the Limpopo Department of Co-operative Governance, Human Settlements and Traditional Affairs (CoGHSTA). When asked who was going to pay for the damage incurred in demolishing the present RDP house, the chairperson of SANCO in Phiphidi, Mr Tshipalafhasi, said the municipality had to deal with fraudsters within its ranks. Meanwhile, the spokesperson for the Thulamela Municipality, Mr Nndwamato Tshiila, said after Friday's meeting that all parties, including CoGHSTA, had decided to build the house where it had been allocated in the first place. “The RDP house will be built at Stand no 177, where it was allocated,” he said. 